Discuss how the app handles privacy user data and how security features of the framework utilising will assist to mitigate security concerns.

The application aims to be as secure as possible. Provided that SQL injection attacks are one of the most frequent attacks that jeopardise the privacy of data, this application tries to reduce the chances of SQL injections to be effective. Input validation is the first security measure to be discussed. Input validation simply determines what is and what is not acceptable input by the user. Constraints are conditions that can be placed upon the input and only when the inputs meet the specifications of the constraints will the input be deemed valid. 

Parameterized query: precompiling a SQL statement to which only parameters need to be added. This has not been utilised in the application, but believe it important to address. 

Stored procedures: SPs are grouped SQL statements put together to carry out a purpose. SP are useful when commonly repeated SQL statements are being used. By using SP you can use SP without worrying about the database security (Assuming the SP was designed to be secure). 

Escaping: The application uses character-escaping functions for user-supplied input. This ensures that the database does not confuse input from the user with the input of the developer. By adding Escaping as a security measure, it avoids the challenge of unintended changes to the database. (NOT SURE YET)

Avoiding administrative privileges: It is bad practice to connect an application to the database using an account with root access. Therefore, the application does not do this. The security ramifications of conncting an application to the database using an account with root access is that it could undermine the whole system should a malicious attacker gain the credentials to the root account. In addition it is good practice to limit the privileges given to users. I have taken the approach to give privileges based on requirements opposed to taking away privileges. 

Web application firewall: This is a feature that I would like to add however I am unsure as to whether I am capable of adding a Web application firewall. According to Positive Technologies the WAF (Web application firewall) is "one of the best practices to identify SQL injection attacks...". The firewall acts as a barrier and filters through the data acting only on files that are deemed a threat. It is easy to use and simple to modify. Postive Technologies continues to state that 'WAF should always be considered a part of web security defense in-depth strategy'. SQL injection attacks can occur with large variations and therefore prevention techniques mentioned above excluding WAF are often unable to protect the database. Because of this, WAF is recommended to be used in tandem with the other prevention techniques. WAF provides protection for custom web applications that are usually unprotected. 

Source:
https://www.ptsecurity.com/ww-en/analytics/knowledge-base/how-to-prevent-sql-injection-attacks/#2

Discuss how I will address; Professional obligations (timely manner, explicit about maintenance of the system, industry ethical obligations, legal obligations OR privacy impications)

Professional obligations consist of delivery of the project within a timely manner, maintaining the created system or project, ethical obligations and legal obligations. Now to address the question of how I will address each of these areas.

I expect to deliver the project within a timely manner by identifying when the project is due. I will then proceed to plan out how long I expect to spend on each area of the project allocating resources accordingly to the perceived difficulties of each area. For this project the marks can be divided into two sections; the first section consists of predominantly Python frameworks with some written areas, whereas the second section focuses on SQL, the database. Given that the first section weighs more than section two, it is a given that section one will be given more attention and resources. The second area of maintaining the system to me refers to errorhandling and possibly continued maintainenace on my end once the project has been handed in. In terms of errorhandling, I will try to brainstorm the possible outcomes and ensure the errors are handled cleanly. Once the project has been handed in I will try to update the project on github and notify the employer of potential updates. Ethical obligations seems to be a tough one. Regarding ethics in the area of Information technology, I can only see it being an issue if the program handles sensitive data. The issue of what 'sensitive data' is to the individual I believe can vary which could prove to be an obstacle however should the program handle sensitive data, it is the developers responsibility to ensure the program has been written to protect the user. In this application I have added tokens and a username and password requirement to allow the user access to the program. However, as the developer I can only provide to what I believe to be necessary. Should the user share their credentials or enable a malicious attacker entry into my program, though it is unfortunate, I am unable to and should not be expected to be held responsible. To assist my users and for the longevity of the application, I will aid when I can however, at the end of the day it is not my responsibility to babysit my users. I will NEVER share the data in my database to any parties until I receive approval from the users. From a legal standpoint should there be loopholes in my program that danger my users then yes, I would be expected to take responsibility, however this again is only if the user and I have engaged in some form of a legalised contract and the issue falls under negligence on my part. Provided that my application does not have a monetary charge and is not intended to be a place to store sensitive data, I should not be able to be held responsible for any malicious unlawful activities on my application. 


